docs: fine tune llama with trainium (#48768)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/train/examples/aws-trainium/llama3.rst

:orphan:

> Distributed Fine-tuning of LLaMA3.1 8B on AWS Trainium with Ray and PyTorch Lightning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Distributed fine-tuning of Llama 3.1 8B on AWS Trainium with Ray and PyTorch Lightning
```

=====================================================================================

> This example demonstrates how to fine-tune `Llama 3.1 8B <https://huggingface.co/NousResearch/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B/>`__ model on `AWS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how to fine-tune the `Llama 3.1 8B <https://huggingface.co/NousResearch/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B/>`__ model on `AWS
```

> Trainium <https://aws.amazon.com/ai/machine-learning/trainium/>`__ instances using Ray Train, PyTorch Lightning and AWS Neuron SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Trainium <https://aws.amazon.com/ai/machine-learning/trainium/>`__ instances using Ray Train, PyTorch Lightning, and AWS Neuron SDK.
```

AWS Trainium is the machine learning (ML) chip that AWS built for deep
learning (DL) training of 100B+ parameter models. `AWS Neuron
SDK <https://aws.amazon.com/machine-learning/neuron/>`__ helps
developers train models on Trainium accelerators.

Prepare the environment
-----------------------

> Refer to the instructions in `Setup EKS cluster and tools <https://github.com/aws-neuron/aws-neuron-eks-samples/tree/master/llama3.1_8B_finetune_ray_ptl_neuron#setupeksclusterandtools>`__ for setting up an Amazon EKS cluster leveraging AWS Trainium instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See `Setup EKS cluster and tools <https://github.com/aws-neuron/aws-neuron-eks-samples/tree/master/llama3.1_8B_finetune_ray_ptl_neuron#setupeksclusterandtools>`__ for setting up an Amazon EKS cluster leveraging AWS Trainium instances.
```

> Create docker image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a Docker image
```

-------------------

> Once the EKS cluster is ready, it's time to create an Amazon ECR repository for building and uploading the docker image containing artifacts for fine-tuning Llama3.1 8B model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the EKS cluster is ready, create an Amazon ECR repository for building and uploading the Docker image containing artifacts for fine-tuning a Llama3.1 8B model:
```

1. Clone the repo.

::

   git clone https://github.com/aws-neuron/aws-neuron-eks-samples.git

2. Go to the ``llama3.1_8B_finetune_ray_ptl_neuron`` directory.

::

   cd aws-neuron-eks-samples/llama3.1_8B_finetune_ray_ptl_neuron

3. Trigger the script.

::

   chmod +x 0-kuberay-trn1-llama3-finetune-build-image.sh 
   ./0-kuberay-trn1-llama3-finetune-build-image.sh

> 4. Enter the zone your cluster is running in, for example: us-east-2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Enter the zone your cluster is running in, for example: us-east-2.
```

5. Verify in the AWS console that the Amazon ECR service has the newly
   created ``kuberay_trn1_llama3.1_pytorch2`` repository.

6. Update the ECR image ARN in the manifest file used for creating the Ray cluster.

> Replace the <AWS_ACCOUNT_ID> and <REGION> placeholders with actual values in the ``1-llama3-finetune-trn1-create-raycluster.yaml`` file using commands below (to reflect the ECR image ARN created above):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace the <AWS_ACCOUNT_ID> and <REGION> placeholders with actual values in the ``1-llama3-finetune-trn1-create-raycluster.yaml`` file using commands below to reflect the ECR image ARN created above:
```

::

   export AWS_ACCOUNT_ID=<enter_your_aws_account_id> # for ex: 111222333444
   export REGION=<enter_your_aws_region> # for ex: us-east-2
   sed -i "s/<AWS_ACCOUNT_ID>/$AWS_ACCOUNT_ID/g" 1-llama3-finetune-trn1-create-raycluster.yaml
   sed -i "s/<REGION>/$REGION/g" 1-llama3-finetune-trn1-create-raycluster.yaml

Configuring Ray Cluster
-----------------------

The ``llama3.1_8B_finetune_ray_ptl_neuron`` directory in the AWS Neuron samples repository simplifies the

> Ray configuration. KubeRay provides a manifest that you can easily apply

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ray configuration. KubeRay provides a manifest that you can apply
```

to the cluster to set up the head and worker pods. 

Run the following command to set up the Ray cluster:

::

   kubectl apply -f 1-llama3-finetune-trn1-create-raycluster.yaml

Accessing Ray Dashboard
-----------------------
Port forward from the cluster to see the state of the Ray dashboard and
then view it on `http://localhost:8265 <http://localhost:8265/>`__.
Run it in the background with the following command:

::

   kubectl port-forward service/kuberay-trn1-head-svc 8265:8265 &

Launching Ray Jobs
------------------

> With the Ray cluster now ready to handle workloads, it's time to initiate the data preparation and fine-tuning Ray jobs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Ray cluster now ready to handle workloads. Initiate the data preparation and fine-tuning Ray jobs:
```

1. Launch the Ray job for downloading the dolly-15k dataset and the Llama3.1 8B model artifacts:

::

   kubectl apply -f 2-llama3-finetune-trn1-rayjob-create-data.yaml

2. When the job has executed successfully, run the following fine-tuning job:

::

   kubectl apply -f 3-llama3-finetune-trn1-rayjob-submit-finetuning-job.yaml

3. Monitor the jobs via the Ray Dashboard

> For detailed information on each of the steps above, refer to the `AWS documentation link <https://github.com/aws-neuron/aws-neuron-eks-samples/blob/master/llama3.1_8B_finetune_ray_ptl_neuron/README.md/>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For detailed information on each of the steps above, see the `AWS documentation link <https://github.com/aws-neuron/aws-neuron-eks-samples/blob/master/llama3.1_8B_finetune_ray_ptl_neuron/README.md/>`__.
```

Fine tune Llama3.1 with AWS Trainium
====================================

This example demonstrates how to fine-tune Llama 3.1 on `AWS
Trainium <https://aws.amazon.com/ai/machine-learning/trainium/>`__ using
Ray Train, PyTorch Lightning, and Neuron.

AWS Trainium is the machine learning (ML) chip that AWS built for deep
learning (DL) training of 100B+ parameter models. `AWS Neuron
SDK <https://aws.amazon.com/machine-learning/neuron/>`__ helps
developers train models on Trainium accelerators.

Prepare the environment
-----------------------

> See the AWS guide for `setting up an EKS cluster with

Reviewer 2: @sindhupalakodety -- i think "Supported AWS Regions for deployment are us-west-2 / us-east-1 / us-east-2." should be in AWS docs rather than Ray docs

> See the AWS guide for `setting up an EKS cluster with

Reviewer 3: True. Its already mentioned in AWS docs. You can remove this. Thanks!

KubeRay <https://awslabs.github.io/data-on-eks/docs/gen-ai/training/Neuron/RayTrain-Llama2#1-deploying-the-solution>`__,
and the guide to `configure
Neuron <https://awslabs.github.io/data-on-eks/docs/gen-ai/training/Neuron/RayTrain-Llama2#1-deploying-the-solution>`__
within the cluster.

Create docker image
-------------------

Use a pre-configured job to run in the cluster.

1. Clone the repo.

::

   git clone https://github.com/aws-neuron/aws-neuron-samples.git

2. Go to the XXX directory.

::

   cd XXX

3. Trigger the script.

::

   ./kuberay-trn1-llama3-pretrain-build-image.sh

4. Enter the zone your cluster is running in.
5. Verify in the AWS console that the Amazon ECR service has the newly
   created ``kuberay_trn1_llama3.1_pytorch2``
6. Update the image in the following manifest files:

   1. ``1-llama3-pretrain-trn1-rayjob-create-test-data.yaml``
   2. ``3-llama3-pretrain-trn1-rayjob.yaml``

Configuring Ray
---------------

The XXX directory in the AWS Neuron samples repository simplifies the
Ray configuration. KubeRay provides a manifest that you can easily apply
to the cluster to set up the head and worker pods. Run the following

> command:

Reviewer 3: Put the statement below on a different line closer to the actual command:

Run the following command to set up the Ray cluster:
